---
title: Steam Deck cheat sheet
tags:
  - games
  - linux
  - wiki
permalink: /wiki/668b3efd/
layout: page
---

### Reset the "deck" account password

1. Power off the Steam Deck.
2. Press and hold the three-dot button and the power button for a few seconds until the boot menu appears.
3. Select "Current SteamOS-[VERSION] + Boot Menu" (which is probably the 3rd option down).
4. At the GRUB ("Select Operating System") screen, make sure that "SteamOS" is highlighted, and press the <kbd>E</kbd> key on your keyboard to enter edit mode.
5. At the end of the line that starts with `steamenv_boot`, add this argument: `systemd.debug_shell`
6. Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>X</kbd> to reboot the Steam Deck.
7. Once the system has finished booting, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>F9</kbd> to enter the root shell.
8. Run `passwd deck` to change the password for the "deck" account.
9. Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>F1</kbd> to return to gaming mode.
10. Reboot the Steam Deck.

Source: [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F96ntnf8qiQ)

### Fix boot failure involving black screen and loud fans

I encountered a situation in which my Steam Deck suddenly wouldn't boot. However, it would turn on, and the fans would run extremely loudly for a few seconds, the white power light would pulse, and then it would start over. The following steps fix the problem.

1. Power off the Steam Deck.
2. Plug it into its original charger (and plug the charger into the wall).
3. Press and hold the three-dot button and the volume-up button for about 10 seconds.
4. While still holding the buttons down, unplug the charger (which can be tricky!). The power light should blink blue a few times.
5. Release the buttons.
6. Plug the charger back in.
7. The Steam Deck should power up on its own (i.e., you shouldn't have to press the power button).

Source: [link](https://steamcommunity.com/discussions/forum/11/592899712937409863/)
